Like in p5.js, in JSCAD we also want to work
with parameters, to change our designs as
it's already rendering. And for this we need
different input systems. In JSCAD we have a
very convenient way of defining input forms,
so that we can change certain parameters and
re-trigger the rendering process. To do so, we
need to modify our boilerplate. I've also provided
you with an additional boilerplate, that already
includes all these parameter functionalities.
First of all, we need to add a new function.
The get parameterDefinitions function,
this function returns an array of
objects and each object defines one input
form element. In this case it's a float number,
with a default value of five, size is the label
that's going to be displayed next to the input
element and "size" the name attribute. This is
the name of the variable that we can later call
to get us the current value of the size element.
Then we also need to export our new function, so
that the system actually knows that it's there.
And if i save this now, we will see that there is
now a new little form widget module in the lower
left, where we can see our new input element.
And i've added a list of all the possible input
elements below the video. You can add as many
as you want in this little element and it will
just increase in size as you add more elements
to it. But now, we of course want to access all
the current variables that we produce through our
input form. Therefore, we need to send a variable
to our main function. And through this variable,
that we are sending as a parameter to the
main function, we can now access all the elements
from our definitions, in the function before.
For example, "parameters.size", this is now the
current value of the size element, created above.
The name that you provide here is the name that
you can later on use for the parameters object.
To get the current value of this parameter. Let's
save this and see what happens. Now we can see
the cube is very small because the current
size is set to five, so let's change this to 50
and it's immediately redrawn for us.